Title: Distributed Agent Updates
Class: feature
Compatible: compat
Component: agents
Date: 1572874347
Edition: cee
Knowledge: undoc
Level: 2
Version: 2.0.0i1

It is now possible to deploy baked agents via remote sites within a distributed
monitoring configuration. Prerequisites for this feature are a monitoring setup
using distributed WATO and the possibility to establish a connection from remote
sites to the central site via HTTP/HTTPS.

This feature is realized as follows: Update requests to the remote sites
get forwarded to the central site – The entire configuration and the agent
baking process is done on the central site. Agent packages that got requested
once at a remote site will get cached (as long as they are valid) there to save
unnecessary traffic. Additionally, the requested data will be checked for consistency
on the remote site, again to save unnecessary traffic to the central site.

In contrast to a single-site-setup, the update server for a host doesn't come exclusively
from the agent updater ruleset, but gets transmitted to the host on it's registration and
update requests. A host will receive the Checkmk site that it is monitored on as it's
update server. 

Putting this together, an input of a Checkmk-server is only needed once on registration.
If a connection to the automatic update server is failing, the previously saved server
(from agent updater ruleset or from manual registration) will be contacted as a
fallback.

This feature also introduces a faciliated agent updater ruleset configuration - especially
when it comes to HTTPS handling - and some additional global settings that have to
be configured to enable the distributed agent updates.
All new or adapted configuration values get migrated in a way that maintains the behavior
of an existing agent updater ruleset.

For details about configuration and how to enable (or disable) this new feature, please
have a look at the <a href="https://checkmk.com/cms_agent_deployment.html"> Automatic Agent Updates</a>
article at the official Checkmk guide.
