Title: AWS S3
Class: fix
Compatible: incomp
Component: checks
Date: 1589290065
Edition: cre
Knowledge: doc
Level: 1
Version: 2.0.0i1

This werk fixes multiple issues with the AWS S3 monitoring, i.e.:

- As a follow-up for werk #11092, where one service per monitored
  region for the monitoring of AWS limits was introduced, the
  corresponding service for S3 is now always discovered as
  'AWS/S3 Limits Global'. This is because there are no per-region
  limits for S3, only global account-wide limits. Users have to
  re-discover this service and potentially adjust any related rules
  for this to come into effect.

- The regions set when configuring the AWS special are now properly
  taken into account when monitoring S3 buckets (note that they are
  deliberately ignored for the limits). This means that buckets
  residing in regions which are not monitored are not discovered any
  more and do not contribute to the S3 summary service. Users have to
  re-discover the S3 services for this to come into effect.

- AWS S3 CloudWatch metrics are now fetched properly. Previously, only
  the non-request metrics for buckets in the region us-east-1 worked,
  such that for example bucket sizes for buckets outside us-east-1
  were wrong.

- A couple of metrics and some units were fixed.

- The rule "AWS/S3 HTTP Errors" for the check aws_s3_requests.http_errors
  has been added.

- The levels for the check aws_s3_requests.latency (rule
  "AWS/S3 Latency") are now specified in ms, before, the smallest
  possible level was 1 s. After installing the werk, users have to
  re-define this rule.

- Rules configured for the check aws_s3_requests ("AWS/S3 Bucket Requests")
  now have an effect, previously, they were ignored.

- Services based on S3 CloudWatch metrics now go stale instead of UNKN
  if AWS stops delivering data, for example in the case where requests
  to an S3 buckets stop.

- Names and tags set when configuring the AWS special agent are now
  handled correctly and excluded buckets are not fetched any more (but
  they are still counted for the limits).
