Title: Two-factor authentication via FIDO2/WebAuthn
Class: feature
Compatible: compat
Component: multisite
Date: 1640547957
Edition: cre
Knowledge: undoc
Level: 2
Version: 2.1.0b1

With this change users of the Checkmk user interface can now configure Checkmk
to ask for a second factor during user authentication.

The new two-factor authentication is based on FIDO2/WebAuthn. You can use
authenticators such as the YubiKey, a USB token, a smart phone, Apple’s Touch
ID, and Windows Hello.

To enable the new feature, login to the GUI and open the "User" mega menu on
the bottom left of the screen. Then select "Two-factor authentication". On the
opened page, you first need to click on "Add credential". Once you click that,
your browser will ask you to activate your authenticator. Once done, the
registration with your user account should be complete and a new registered
credential is displayed.

With this step you have enabled the two-factor authentication for your user
account. Future logins will only be possible with the activated authenticator.

If you don't have your authenticator at hand, you can use backup codes. It is
recommended to generate these backup codes right away by clicking on
"Regenerate backup codes". The resulting page will show you a list of 10 backup
codes. Store them in a save place.

Administrators can see that a user has the two-factor authentication enabled in
the users list of the Setup. The Authentication column displays "Password
(+2FA)" for these users. Admins can disable two-factor authentication for users
to help them in case they don't have access to their second factor. This can be
done via "Setup > Users > Edit user > Disable two-factor authentication".

Please note that the WebAuthn standard makes this feature only usable in case
you access the GUI using HTTPS.

The WebAuthn two-factor authentication is also restrictive on the type of host
address you use to access the GUI. It will be used as relying party identifier
(https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#relying-party-identifier) and has to be a
valid domain string (https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#valid-domain-string). You
will have to either use a simple host name or a full qualified domain name.
Please note that you need to be consistent in the domain you use for the
two-factor authentication to work.
