Title: Performance improvements for the mknotifyd
Class: fix
Compatible: compat
Component: notifications
Date: 1634825315
Edition: cee
Knowledge: undoc
Level: 2
State: unknown
Version: 2.1.0b1

This werk fixes some performance regressions in the mknotifyd and can increase
(depending on the setup) the throughput of the mknotifyd. The changes are most
benificial if you use notification plugins with a short running time or if you
forward notifications from remote to central sites. The fixed regressions are:

In distributed setups forwarded messages were always processed in one subprocess
before the actual notification plugins were executed. I.e. even if you used the
option "Maximum concurrent executions" for a notification plugin, it may not
have the desired effect if the processing of forwarded messages was the limiting
factor. You can now use the option "Maximum concurrent executions for forwarded
messages" in the "notification spooler configuration" of the "global settings"
to configure the number of processes. Ideally, the number of processes should
roughly match the concurrent executions of the notification plugins of the
incoming messages. If no value is specified, a default of 1 is used. Note that
higher values lead to a higher CPU load. If e.g. a value of 2 is used and a
notification plugin uses 2 concurrent executions, 4 subprocesses can be started
simultaneously.

The mknotifyd polls for new data with a timeout of 1s. Previously, output of
executed notification plugins was not recognized in the poll. I.e. if no data
was present on a connection or no forwarding was used, the timeout of 1s was
always hit. Now, the mknotifyd recignizes new output of notification plugins and
the poll exits before the 1s timeout is hit.

Incoming connections used blocking sockets and outgoing connections could
occasionally end up with a blocking socket. This degraded the performance of the
mknotifyd if a lot of notifications had to be sent to a remote site and the TCP
queue was already full. It also may lead to occasional disconnects if heartbeats
were missed due to a blocking call and could in the worst case lead to a
deadlock if two sites are in a blocking call.

If a connection had a lot of outgoing data the mknotifyd only sent data and did
not read data from the socket which could leat to missed heartbeats and
disconnects as well.

Before this werk all spoolfiles in the spool and deferred directory were always
processed. If a lot of spoolfiles were present in these directories, this could
lead to up to 2s spent processing these directories per cycle.

Finally, this werk increases the amount of data collected per cycle from a
connection. This resolves the issue of TCP queues when a lot of notifications
had to be forwarded to a remote site.
