Title: Don't show clear text passwords in the audit log
Class: security
Compatible: incomp
Component: multisite
Date: 1633018379
Edition: cre
Knowledge: doc
Level: 2
Version: 2.1.0b1

Beginning from version 2.0 passwords were written to the audit log
in clear text when a rule with a password field was created/cloned
or when a password in a rule was modified. This werk fixes that so
that no passwords are written to the audit log anymore.

By default only admin users are able to see the audit log. Guests
and normal monitoring users do not have acces to the audit log. If
a rule uses the password store, no passwords were written to the
audit log.

Existing passwords in the audit log should be replaced automatically
by "hash:XXXXXXXXXX" during the update. But please double check
that no passwords remain in the log (see next paragraph for details).
If you e.g. use rulesets from extension packages that contain
password fields, passwords from these rules may remain in the log.
Additionally, rules from the rulesets "Check SFTP Service",
"Microsoft SQL Server (Windows)" and "Redis databases" cannot be
replaced reliably. So these passwords will remail in the audit log
even after the update.

You can remove/replace remaining passwords directly in the log files.
The log files are placed in the directory var/check_mk/wato/log. The
names of the files are wato_audit.log for the most recent file and
wato_audit.log.YYYY-MM-DD for historic files. Note that if you use
the action "Clear audit log" in the GUI the log is not deleted, but
moved from wato_audit.log to wato_audit.log.YYYY-MM-DD. So in this
case the passwords will not be visible in the GUI anymore, but remain
in the historic log files of the site. The historic files are only
accessible by the site user and group from the command line. A backup
of the original audit log (before passwords were replaced) is copied
to "~/audit_log_backup". If anything goes wrong during the update,
you have to copy the files back to var/check_mk/wato/log and replace
the passwords manually. If the update works as expected, you can
remove the backup files.

In distributed setups which do not replicate the configuration
passwords are replaced during the update of each site.

In setups which replicate the configuration from central to remote
sites no passwords should be present in the logs of the remote site,
since only information about the activation is logged. Only if you
switched to a replicated setup after the upgrade to the 2.0, passwords
can be present in the logs. Since passwords may be in this scenario as
well, the steps described before also apply.
