Title: Windows agent: handle WMI timeouts
Level: 1
Component: checks
Compatible: compat
Edition: cre
Version: 1.5.0i2
Date: 1511347136
Class: fix

All sections depending on WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation)
queries have been suffering from periodic freezing, the time interval
between subsequent freezes being typically 18...20 minutes. At those
moments, the Windows agent has not been delivering any output for some
of its WMI-dependent sections (e. g., ps, uptime, dotnet_clrmemory,
wmi_cpuload, msexch and wmi_webservices). The corresponding checks have
issued error messages of type "Missing agent sections...". Various
strategies have been previously used attempting to cope with the
periodic problems with WMI. Werk #4008 introduced a timeout of 10s in
order to prevent the agent from completely blocking if a WMI query
freezes. However, this led to the described problem of missing agent
output totally when no response was given to a WMI query within 10s.
Moreover, multiple WMI queries waiting for 10s after another led to
periodic long execution times of the Windows agent.

This Werk introduces a new strategy for coping with the periodic
freezing of WMI queries. The timeout of the queries is reduced to 2.5s
instead of 10s per query, reducing the total execution time of the
Windows agent by approximately 75% when the problem occurs. Upon a WMI
timeout, the Windows agent issues it in its output so, that the affected
checks can tolerate it by setting their state to UNKNOWN. In normal
cases, the check should get back to OK when the agent is contacted the
next time and the WMI freeze is most likely gone.

There seems to be a connection of the WMI freezes to the Windows service
WMI Performance Adapter. https://lokna.no/?p=1430 suggests that the
startup type of this service be set to automatic, ensuring the service
is running. Without this, the WMI Performance Adapter seems to get
started periodically when WMI is queried. Testing with WMI Performance
Adapter service running has showed clear signs of improvement, reducing
the frequency of freezing WMI queries even if not completely ending
them.
