title: AWS Lambda: Concurrency
agents: aws
catalog: cloud/aws
license: GPLv2
distribution: check_mk
description:
 This check monitors (provisioned) concurrency metrics of AWS Lambda Services:

 - concurrent executions: Measures the concurrent executions for a Lambda function.
   The default levels for this metric are measured in percent from the AWS Lambda region limit.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the concurrent executions are above the default level percentage of AWS Lambda region limit or
   the concurrent executions are above the configured levels.

 - unreserved concurrent executions:
   The default levels for this metric are measured in percent from the AWS Lambda region limit.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the unreserved concurrent executions are above the default level percentage of AWS Lambda region limit or
   the unreserved concurrent executions are above the configured levels.

 - provisioned concurrent executions: Measures the average number of events that are being processed on provisioned concurrency.
   There are no default levels for this metric.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the number of concurrent executions per second is higher that the configured levels.

 - provisioned concurrency invocations: Measures the number of invocations that are run on provisioned concurrency.
   There are no default levels for this metric.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the number of concurrent invocations per second is higher that the configured levels.

 - provisioned concurrency spillover invocations: Measures the number of invocations that are run on non-provisioned concurrency when all provisioned concurrency is in use.
   The service goes CRIT if at least one spillover invocation occurs during the last check time.

 - provisioned concurrency utilization: Measures the average in percent of provisioned concurrency that is in use for a given Lambda function.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the utilization is close to 100 percent during the last check time.

 To make this checkplugin work you have to configure the related
 special agent {Amazon Web Services (AWS)}.

item:
 Name of the region, AWS Lambda function name, AWS Lambda alias or version for function if available
