title: AWS Lambda: Performance
agents: aws
catalog: cloud/aws
license: GPLv2
distribution: check_mk
description:
 This check monitors performance metrics of AWS Lambda Services:

 - duration: Measures the execution time of the Lambda function.
   The default levels for this metric are measured in percent of the AWS Lambda \"timeout\" limit.
   Additionally absolute duration levels in seconds can also be configured.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the duration is above the default level percentage of AWS Lambda \"timeout\" or
   the duration is above the configured absolute duration levels.

 - errors: Measures the number of invocations per second that failed due to errors in the function.
   The service goes CRIT if at least one error occurs during the last check time.

 - invocations: Measures the number of times per seconds a Lambda function is invoked.
   There are no default levels for this metric.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the number of invocations per second is higher that the configured levels.

 - throttles: Measures the number of Lambda function invocation attempts per second that were throttled due to invocation rates exceeding the concurrent limits.
   The service goes CRIT if at least one error occurs during the last check time.

 - iterator age: (available only for stream based invocations). Measures the age of the last record for each batch of records processed.
   There are no default levels for this metric.
   The service goes WARN/CRIT if the number of invocations per second is higher that the configured levels.

 - dead letter errors: (available only for asynchronous executions). Measures the number of discarded events per second that could not be processed.
   The service goes CRIT if at least one error occurs during the last check time.

 - init duration: Measures the initilization time of the Lambda function.
   There are no default levels for this metric.

 - cold starts: Measures the number of cold starts in relation to the number of invocations (in percent).

 To make this checkplugin work you have to configure the related
 special agent {Amazon Web Services (AWS)}.
 Additionally the permissions for executing AWS Cloudwatch Lambda Insights queries must be given (given by default).

item:
 Name of the region, AWS Lambda function name.
