title: Dell PowerConnect Switches: Temperature Sensors
agents: snmp
catalog: hw/network/dell
license: GPL
distribution: check_mk
description:
 This check monitors the temperature inside Dell PowerConnect Switches which support the
 RADLAN-MIB/NetDiscover MIB. It will retreive the temperature (Celcius), and the state
 of the temperature sensor.

 A single service will be created showing the internal temperature at the time the check
 occurred However, two charts are created that plot the state of the sensor, and the
 value returned for the temperature.

 The state of the check will return an OK value if the sensor is working properly, otherwise
 it will return a WARNING state if the sensor is no longer available, or a CRITICAL state
 if the sensor becomes non-functional.

 The temperature can also trigger a WARNING or CRITICAL nagios state if the temperature
 exceeds the defined threshold values for each state.

 By default, the temperature returned by the SNMP check is returned in Degrees Celcius.

 The Dell PowerConnect manuals indicate the hardware can fail at any temperature over
 41 or 42 degrees Celcius, depending on the model.

 Currently, testing has been completed with the Dell PowerConnect 5448 and 5424 models,
 however the service check may work with other models.

examples:
 It is possible to over-ride the default WARNING and CRITICAL threshold values
 defined above, by ensuring the following variable configuration is set in
 your local main.mk file.

 # Indicate warning at 30 degrees C, and indicate critical for 35 degrees C
 dell_powerconnect_temp_default_values = (30, 35)

perfdata:
 The temperature chart uses a single variable, the temperature (0..200) representing
 the switchs internal temperature in degrees Celcius.

 The sensor chart uses a single variable to indicate the state (0..1), where a 1
 represents the sensor is "ON". A 0 represents the switch is is "OFF" any any other
 state where it is non-operational, or unavailable.

inventory:
 During the inventory phase of check_mk, it will identify one service {Temperature},
 as long as the MIB defined above is supported on the switch.

[parameters]
warning (int): The temperature, in degrees Celcius, at which a warning state is triggered.
critical (int): The temperature, in degrees Celcius, at which a critical state is triggered.

[configuration]
dell_powerconnect_cpu_default_levels(int, int): The Default percentage values used by the inventory checks.
 These variables are pre-set to {(35, 40)}.
