title: EMC VPLEX: Traffic of Network Interfaces
agents: snmp
catalog: hw/storagehw/emc
license: GPL
distribution: check_mk
description:
 This check monitors the traffic of EMC VPLEX frontend and backend interfaces.
 The check uses the same functionality as {if64}. Please refer to the if64 manpage
 for further documentation.

 You can configure limits for the in- and outgoing traffic.

 This check supports averaging the in- and outgoing traffic over a configurable
 time range by using an exponentially weighted moving average - just as Linux
 does for the CPU load averages. The averaging can be configured on a per-host
 and per-interface base. Interfaces with averaging turned on yield two additional
 performance values: the averaged in- and outgoing traffic in bytes. If you have
 configured traffic levels, then those levels are applied to the averaged values.

item:
 There are three ways to specify the interface: the index, which simply enumerates
 the interfaces starting from 1, the interface description, e.g. {B1-FC00}, or the
 alias, which is a combination of the director name and the description, e.g
 {director-1-1-A A1-FC03}.

inventory:
 One service is created for each interface that fulfills configurable conditions
 (rule "Network interface and switch port discovery").
 By default, all interfaces are discovered. Note that the interfaces discovered by
 this check have no port type and are always in the state "up".

 {Grouping:} In some situations, you do not want to monitor a single
 interface but a group of interfaces that together form a pool.
 This check supports such pools by defining groups. The data of all members is
 accumulated and put together in a single grouped interface service.

cluster:
 In the case where single (ungrouped) interfaces are clustered, the corresponding
 services report only the results from the node with the highest outgoing traffic,
 since this node is likely the active node.
 In the case where interface groups are clustered, the grouping is applied across
 all nodes, potentially combining interfaces from different nodes. Note that the
 rules defining the interface groups must be configured to apply to the nodes, not
 to the cluster host (the latter has no effect). In case the grouping configurations
 vary across the nodes, the last node wins.

