title: Oracle: Checkpoint and User Managed Backup State of Datafiles
agents: linux, aix, hp/ux, Solaris
catalog: app/oracle
license: GPLv2
distribution: check_mk
description:
 This check monitors the Checkpoint and the online backup state
 on every datafile of the Database.
 The Checkpoint is normaly needed for Standby Databases as the apply
 of an archived redolog will move the checkpoint of the database. This
 is a usual way to monitor the apply of archived redologs on a Physical
 Standby Database without Data Guard. This is normaly needed for
 Standard Edition Databases. There is an important difference between
 Primary and Standby Database. Primary will only create WARNINGs, when
 the level of levels is exceeded. A value for CRITICAL is only usable
 when the Database is in Physical Standby Mode.
 The check for 'missing files' detects missing files in the control file
 of the database. The Check results in a CRIT state when more the 0
 files are missing. This is possible in physical stanbdy Environments
 after an error while creating a new datafile.

 The 2nd function is the monitoring of datafiles in manual backup mode.
 This is important for database which are backed up with 'alter database
 begin/end backup;' - RMAN didn't use this function and it is not needed
 for that backup type. If an end backup is missing and you restart the
 database you'll unable to open the database.

 To prevent such situations, the state of the backup mode could be
 monitored. The rule describes the maximum time for an active backup
 mode for a datafile until a WARN or CRIT is generated.

 If the last checkpoint time is in the future the check generates a WARN
 and is displaying an information to check the time on the host system.

 {Important Information}
 There is no checkpoint created if a database is in backup mode. It
 is expected, that the checkpoint time could also reach a configured
 limit when a backup is running! This is not the case for Backups with
 RMAN.

 This check needs the Checkmk {mk_oracle}-plugin installed in
 the agent. Please refer to the online documentation
 for how to install that plugin.

item:
 The SID of the database in uppercase (as appearing in the process
 name of the pmon_... process).

discovery:
 One service is created for each runnning database.
