title: Kubernetes: Cluster Collector for Vanilla Kubernetes, AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), VMware Tanzu
agents: kubernetes
catalog: containerization/kubernetes
license: GPLv2
distribution: check_mk
description:
 The connection status to the Kubernetes API is implicitly reported by the
 Checkmk service. This service has a similar function in terms of the
 connection to the Cluster Collector deployed to the Kubernetes cluster.

 The service has three tasks. It reports on the metadata of the
 collectors that are deployed to the Kubernetes cluster (including cache health)
 and also provides reports on the data processing of the collected data. It
 displays additional information in case a problem occurs during the data
 handling process within the agent. Moreover, the service uses the Kubernetes
 API to report on the status of DaemonSets belonging to node collectors. For
 each node collector the following are reported:

 - the number of Nodes with a Pod, which is available and desired

 - the number of Nodes, on which a Pod is desired

 The DaemonSets are identified by the labels "node-collector=machine-sections"
 and "node-collector=container-metrics".

 The service allows for setting the alert status when machine sections cannot be
 successfully fetched and processed from the cluster collector. When container
 metrics cannot be fetched and processed, the service will always go CRIT.

 Additionally, Cluster Collector cache health is monitored. When the container
 metrics or machine sections cache exceeds configured thresholds, Checkmk will
 alert. (In this case, it is likely that you need to increase the maximum cache
 size of the Cluster Collector, which can be done via the official Helm chart
 by setting `clusterCollector.cacheMaxsize`.) The thresholds for this check are
 configurable with the "Kubernetes Collector info" ruleset.

 Note, that the information displayed by this service changes if the
 corresponding collector is changed.

discovery:
 One service is created if the option `Use data from Checkmk Cluster Collector`
 is set.
